README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/70867022?s=400&u=be3f88201c5a8ce140d7f297a1152812aea67082&v=4" alt="Silas Moracha" width="300" style="border-radius: 50%;" />

  # 👋 Silas Moracha (mcmnyages)
  ## Cybersecurity & Software Engineer — B.Sc. Information Technology, Maseno University (Graduated 2025)
</div>

> 🌟 Hi — I'm Silas (McMnyages). I combine practical software development with security-first thinking to build reliable, maintainable, and secure applications. I recently completed my B.Sc. in Information Technology at Maseno University (Class of 2025) and I'm actively working on projects that bridge web, mobile, and backend systems with strong security practices.

<div align="center">

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-mcmnyages-blue?style=flat&logo=linkedin)](https://linkedin.com/in/mcmnyages)
[![Portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/Portfolio-silas--moracha.io-green?style=flat&logo=google-chrome)](https://mcmnyages.github.io/silas_moracha.io/)
[![Instagram](https://img.shields.io/badge/Instagram-mcmnyages-purple?style=flat&logo=instagram)](https://instagram.com/mcmnyages)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-morachasilas%40gmail.com-red?style=flat&logo=gmail)](mailto:morachasilas@gmail.com)

</div>

## 📑 Table of Contents

- [About Me](#-about-me)
- [Highlights](#-highlights)
- [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack)
- [Project Showcase](#-project-showcase)
- [GitHub Activity](#-github-activity)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)
- [Security Practices](#-security-practices)
- [Get in Touch](#-get-in-touch)
- [License](#-license)

## 🙋‍♂️ About Me

I'm a security-minded software engineer with hands-on experience across web, mobile, and backend development. I care about secure-by-design solutions, clear code, and building products that users trust.

- 👨‍💻 **Name:** Silas Moracha | McMnyages  
- 🎓 **Education:** B.Sc. Information Technology, Maseno University — Graduated 2025  
- 🔒 **Focus Areas:** Cybersecurity, secure coding, vulnerability assessment, defensive design  
- 🌱 **Current Work:** Building full-stack apps, improving CI/CD security, preparing for security certifications  
- 🚀 **Mission:** Ship usable software that respects privacy and resists attacks

## 🌟 Highlights

- Graduated from Maseno University (B.Sc. Information Technology) — Class of 2025.  
- Built multiple Android and web apps with emphasis on secure data handling and UX.  
- Created learning-focused database schemas and example datasets (MySQL).  
- Active in open-source projects and continuously improving code quality, testing, and documentation.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

Languages & frameworks I use regularly:

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-ED8B00?style=for-the-badge&logo=openjdk&logoColor=white)
![PHP](https://img.shields.io-badge/PHP-777BB4?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io-badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io-badge/Node.js-43853D?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)

Supporting tools & concepts:
- Databases: MySQL, SQL queries and schema design  
- Mobile: Android (Java, Kotlin), React Native / Expo  
- Dev: Git, REST APIs, unit testing, basic CI practices  
- Security: Secure coding practices, input validation, secrets management

## 🌐 Project Showcase

| Project | Overview | Tech |
|---------|----------|------|
| WORLD_MySQL 🗄️ | MySQL schema design and example datasets to teach data modeling and queries. Useful for learning relational design and optimization. | MySQL |
| CIT-415-Year-4 📚 | Academic and capstone projects covering algorithms, system design, and practical IT solutions. | Various |
| Android_Studio_Projects 📱 | Android apps with attention to secure data handling, authentication patterns, and UI/UX. | Java, Kotlin |
| Classwork & Assignments ✏️ | Exercises and small projects tracing my learning path and problem-solving approach. | Various |
| React & React Native Apps ⚛️ | Web and cross-platform mobile prototypes that explore modern front-end patterns and secure API usage. | React, React Native |

(See individual folders for demos, README files, and setup instructions.)

## 📊 GitHub Activity

<div align="center">

![GitHub Stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=mcmnyages&show_icons=true&theme=radical)
![Top Languages](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=mcmnyages&layout=compact&theme=radical)

</div>

## 🤝 Contributing

I welcome collaboration and feedback. A few guidelines to make contributions smooth:

- Branches: use `feature/<name>` or `fix/<name>`  
- Commits: write clear, imperative commit messages (e.g., "Add authentication module")  
- PRs: target `main`, include a description, link to related issues, and steps to test  
- Tests: add tests where possible and follow linting rules

Open an issue or PR — I try to respond promptly.

## 🔒 Security Practices

Security is central to my work:

- 🚫 Never commit secrets or `.env` files — use environment variables and GitHub Secrets.  
- 🔐 Sanitize and validate all inputs; avoid unsafe deserialization.  
- 🧹 Use sample or anonymized data in public repos.  
- 🔍 Document known limitations and encourage responsible disclosure for vulnerabilities.

If you discover a security issue, please contact me directly via email before public disclosure.

## 📬 Get in Touch

- 🌐 Portfolio: [silas-moracha.io](https://mcmnyages.github.io/silas_moracha.io/)  
- 📧 Email: [morachasilas@gmail.com](mailto:morachasilas@gmail.com)  
- 🔗 LinkedIn: [linkedin.com/in/mcmnyages](https://linkedin.com/in/mcmnyages)  
- 📸 Instagram: [instagram.com/mcmnyages](https://instagram.com/mcmnyages)

I’m open to collaboration, mentorship, and opportunities that match my passion for secure software and practical engineering.

## 📜 License

This repository is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

<div align="center">

Crafted with 💻, 🔒, and ☕ by Silas Moracha

*On a mission to secure and innovate — star the repo, share feedback, or join me in building safer software!* 🚀

</div>

Commit message:

Enhance README with CTF and security details
Added details about CTF participation and cybersecurity practice.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/70867022?s=400&u=be3f88201c5a8ce140d7f297a1152812aea67082&v=4" alt="Silas Moracha" width="300" style="border-radius: 50%;" />

  # 👋 Silas Moracha (mcmnyages)
  ## Cybersecurity & Software Engineer — B.Sc. Information Technology, Maseno University (Graduated 2025)
</div>

> 🌟 Hi — I'm Silas (McMnyages). I combine practical software development with security-first thinking to build reliable, maintainable, and secure applications. I recently completed my B.Sc. in Information Technology at Maseno University (Class of 2025) and I'm actively working on projects that bridge web, mobile, and backend systems with strong security practices.

<div align="center">

[![LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-mcmnyages-blue?style=flat&logo=linkedin)](https://linkedin.com/in/mcmnyages)
[![Portfolio](https://img.shields.io/badge/Portfolio-silas--moracha.io-green?style=flat&logo=google-chrome)](https://mcmnyages.github.io/silas_moracha.io/)
[![Instagram](https://img.shields.io/badge/Instagram-mcmnyages-purple?style=flat&logo=instagram)](https://instagram.com/mcmnyages)
[![Email](https://img.shields.io/badge/Email-morachasilas%40gmail.com-red?style=flat&logo=gmail)](mailto:morachasilas@gmail.com)

</div>

## 📑 Table of Contents

- [About Me](#-about-me)
- [Highlights](#-highlights)
- [Tech Stack](#-tech-stack)
- [Project Showcase](#-project-showcase)
- [GitHub Activity](#-github-activity)
- [Contributing](#-contributing)
- [Security Practices](#-security-practices)
- [Get in Touch](#-get-in-touch)
- [License](#-license)

## 🙋‍♂️ About Me

I'm a security-minded software engineer with hands-on experience across web, mobile, and backend development. I care about secure-by-design solutions, clear code, and building products that users trust.

- 👨‍💻 **Name:** Silas Moracha | McMnyages  
- 🎓 **Education:** B.Sc. Information Technology, Maseno University — Graduated 2025  
- 🔒 **Focus Areas:** Cybersecurity, secure coding, vulnerability assessment, defensive design  
- 🌱 **Current Work:** Building full-stack apps, improving CI/CD security, preparing for security certifications  
- 🚀 **Mission:** Ship usable software that respects privacy and resists attacks
- 🎯 **CTF Enthusiast:** Love playing Capture The Flag competitions to sharpen my cybersecurity skills and stay updated with the latest attack vectors and defense techniques

## 🌟 Highlights

- Graduated from Maseno University (B.Sc. Information Technology) — Class of 2025.  
- Built multiple Android and web apps with emphasis on secure data handling and UX.  
- Created learning-focused database schemas and example datasets (MySQL).  
- Active in open-source projects and continuously improving code quality, testing, and documentation.
- Regular CTF participant, applying hands-on security skills in real-world scenarios.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

Languages & frameworks I use regularly:

![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)
![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/Java-ED8B00?style=for-the-badge&logo=openjdk&logoColor=white)
![PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/PHP-777BB4?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&logoColor=white)
![React](https://img.shields.io/badge/React-20232A?style=for-the-badge&logo=react&logoColor=61DAFB)
![Node.js](https://img.shields.io/badge/Node.js-43853D?style=for-the-badge&logo=node.js&logoColor=white)

Supporting tools & concepts:
- Databases: MySQL, SQL queries and schema design  
- Mobile: Android (Java, Kotlin), React Native / Expo  
- Dev: Git, REST APIs, unit testing, basic CI practices  
- Security: Secure coding practices, input validation, secrets management, CTF competitions

## 🌐 Project Showcase

| Project | Overview | Tech |
|---------|----------|------|
| WORLD_MySQL 🗄️ | MySQL schema design and example datasets to teach data modeling and queries. Useful for learning relational design and optimization. | MySQL |
| CIT-415-Year-4 📚 | Academic and capstone projects covering algorithms, system design, and practical IT solutions. | Various |
| Android_Studio_Projects 📱 | Android apps with attention to secure data handling, authentication patterns, and UI/UX. | Java, Kotlin |
| Classwork & Assignments ✏️ | Exercises and small projects tracing my learning path and problem-solving approach. | Various |
| React & React Native Apps ⚛️ | Web and cross-platform mobile prototypes that explore modern front-end patterns and secure API usage. | React, React Native |

(See individual folders for demos, README files, and setup instructions.)

## 📊 GitHub Activity

<div align="center">

![GitHub Stats](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=mcmnyages&show_icons=true&theme=radical&cache_seconds=1800)
![GitHub Streak](https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=mcmnyages&theme=radical)
![Top Languages](https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api/top-langs/?username=mcmnyages&layout=compact&theme=radical&cache_seconds=1800)

</div>

> **Note:** If stats don't load, GitHub's API may be rate-limited. Try refreshing after a few minutes or view my profile directly at [@mcmnyages](https://github.com/mcmnyages).

**🎯 CTF & Cybersecurity Practice:**  
I regularly participate in Capture The Flag (CTF) competitions to strengthen my cybersecurity skills. These challenges help me stay sharp with penetration testing, reverse engineering, cryptography, and web exploitation techniques — all essential for building more secure applications.

## 🤝 Contributing

I welcome collaboration and feedback. A few guidelines to make contributions smooth:

- Branches: use `feature/<name>` or `fix/<name>`  
- Commits: write clear, imperative commit messages (e.g., "Add authentication module")  
- PRs: target `main`, include a description, link to related issues, and steps to test  
- Tests: add tests where possible and follow linting rules

Open an issue or PR — I try to respond promptly.

## 🔒 Security Practices

Security is central to my work:

- 🚫 Never commit secrets or `.env` files — use environment variables and GitHub Secrets.  
- 🔐 Sanitize and validate all inputs; avoid unsafe deserialization.  
- 🧹 Use sample or anonymized data in public repos.  
- 🔍 Document known limitations and encourage responsible disclosure for vulnerabilities.
- 🎯 Continuously improve security knowledge through CTF competitions and hands-on practice.

If you discover a security issue, please contact me directly via email before public disclosure.

## 📬 Get in Touch

- 🌐 Portfolio: [silas-moracha.io](https://mcmnyages.github.io/silas_moracha.io/)  
- 📧 Email: [morachasilas@gmail.com](mailto:morachasilas@gmail.com)  
- 🔗 LinkedIn: [linkedin.com/in/mcmnyages](https://linkedin.com/in/mcmnyages)  
- 📸 Instagram: [instagram.com/mcmnyages](https://instagram.com/mcmnyages)

I'm open to collaboration, mentorship, and opportunities that match my passion for secure software and practical engineering.

## 📜 License

This repository is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

---

<div align="center">

Crafted with 💻, 🔒, and ☕ by Silas Moracha

*On a mission to secure and innovate — star the repo, share feedback, or join me in building safer software!* 🚀

</div>
